# The Communicating Wall Behind the Virus Rumour

## Introduction
In this final project, I investigate the rumors in the English media world and Chinese media world. Fake news has already attracted the attention of communication scholars these years with the increasing social media user, especially after the election in 2016. Jokers, scammers, politicians, conspiracy theorists, and all the related people contributed to the spreading of misinformation. In the case of Covid-19, as people were facing a completely unknown virus at the beginning of 2020, rumors broke out and were shared on social media. The information led to some abnormal social phenomena such as abandoning pets, snapping up toilet paper, and endless discussions about the origin of Covid-19.

There is already some research focusing on rumors in the COVID-19 time, and a large part of the researches are using the computational method. Scholars scrape the discussion on social media platforms, analyzing the themes, the origin, and the misinformation about the virus (Singh et al., 2020); Kouzy et al. (2020) used descriptive statistics to compare terms and hashtags, they also identified individual tweets and account characteristics with the method of machine learning; Cinelli et al. (2020) investigated into the information spreading process among various social media platforms, as algorithms mediate and facilitate content promotion across different platforms.

However, the strange thing about the Internet is that it presents us with a seemingly balanced world of information. English, as a universal language, has undertaken the task of information sharing. "Language boundary" has been discovered by many communication scholars. The same is true in this epidemic. Netizens use different languages to discuss the same virus. But there is a precious time difference in this case. The outbreak in China is one month earlier than in other countries in the world.

In my project, I want to compare the theme and content of rumors between the Chinese context and the English context. I think of this topic based on my own experience. In January, when the virus was first reported in China, the confusing and frightening people started reposting a huge amount of rumors on social media, such as garlic could kill the virus or hot water could kill the virus; then doctors jumped out to say the information was false. After about one and a half months, I saw the same rumor again on social media platforms, which were in the English version. The phenomenon disappointed me a lot because in this case, some of the rumors are about lives and health. I can understand some politicized rumors come up again and again. But what about the medically wrong information? I’m wondering, is the wall created by language barriers already so high that the rumors proved to be wrong popped up again one month later in another language version. After analyzing about 6000 lines of rumors in English and 700 lines of rumors in Chinese, I am sure that in terms of medical knowledge, netizens in 2020 have not achieved effective communication. Not only the language problem but also the prejudice that people hold about the virus: the virus is regional and belongs to the "other".

Through the previous study, I tried to answer the following questions:
(1) What are the different types of rumors of netizens in the Chinese context and netizens in the English-speaking world? (for example, the Chinese netizens might focus on the health perception and there might be more political rumor in the English context)
(2) Whether there are rumors pop up twice in a different context?

This final assignment is the beginning of the study. I have many reflections and questions at the end.
